[ Silence ]
2 [Background Music] And I think
many people today don't know
what to believe anymore.
People are basically
going to keep on them
to help uncover what
really happened.
I felt like something
was watching me.
We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told the
entire story.
And now the host
of the nationally syndicated,
Coast to Coast A.M.
[applause] and  Guy MTV
bring you  Beyond Belief
with George Norry.
Well, hello!
Did you know that 98% of
reality, 98% is simply unseen,
and a lot of it has to
do with subtle energy.
Our very special guest tonight
on  Beyond Belief , Cyndi Dale,
noted author who deals
with energy healing.
Here she is; Cyndi,
come on out [applause].
Hi! Hi, George!
Good to see you.
I'm honored to be here.
Thank you.
I felt a burst of energy just...
There we go!
...hugging you like that.
98%, we want to know what
that's really doing, don't we?
Have a seat.
Thank you.
Enjoy yourself.
What are these?
Aren't those nifty?
Well, I bet you're never going
to guess where they're from.
Take a guess at where
this might be from.
This is a dinosaur
tooth [laughter].
[Laughter] I'd be rich if
this was a dinosaur tooth.
What is it?
That's a Mayan stone.
I have been fascinated
with subtle energy ever
since I was a little girl.
I was one of those
kind of strange kids
who could see angels,
and hear ghosts...
Mm-hmm. ...and colors
that came out of people.
And my family -- white, Wonder
bread, Norwegian, Lutheran...
Mm-hmm. ...may I add -- thought
I was kind of strange, so I --
I really couldn't study
much of those phenomenon
until I was older, and then
I traveled quite a bit.
So this is a stone that's
actually from a Mayan ruin ...
[Inaudible].
...that I discovered
in a cave in Belize.
That could be worth something.
Well, I could take this right
now [whistling] [laughter]...
There you go.
What -- what is it?
It's a new dinosaur tooth.
Well, there's kind of a funny
story that goes with that stone.
It's heavy.
Very heavy.
But at one point,
I actually believe,
it was a bit more
animate or conscious
than we think that stones are.
And that's what subtle energy
is, it's all that unknown.
It's that 98%...
Right. ...of what's going
on behind the scenes
that we don't tap into.
So I found this stone, bound
it up, put it in lots and lots
of newspaper and bags.
I was leading a group down
in Belize at the time.
Okay. We got back in the bus,
and it started getting hot,
starting heating up in my hand.
The stone?
The stone did.
It wasn't hot right now.
We should -- I think the
switch turned off or something.
But we started passing
the stone around.
It got hotter, and
hotter, and hotter,
and nobody could really
even touch it after a while.
And then -- I do
intuitive work...
Okay. ...so kind of from that
inside place I had this sense
that there actually
was some kind
of consciousness in that stone.
So being naturally greedy -- we
Norwegians tend to be that way;
that's the Vikings in us...
Mm-hmm. ...I think [laughter].
I said, "Well, what's
it going to do for us?"
And I really do believe I
heard a voice that said, "Well,
I'm going to grant
witches -- wishes.
Or maybe witches [chuckle].
You -- you never know.
It could be either way.
You never know.
So we passed...
We've dealt with all of them.
I bet you have.
So we passed the darn stone
around; everybody made a wish,
stopped being hot, and you know
within two months everybody
on the trip had their wish met.
No! I'm not kidding.
It's worth a lot
more than you think.
It's an Aladdin stone.
Maybe -- maybe we'll all be
wishing on it [laughter].
And we're going to get into some
of that, too, but tell me...
That's right.
...a little bit about when you
talk about subtle energy...
Yeah. What -- what
are we talking about?
Well, I'm not talking about
anything really that different
than energy as a general term.
And when most of us went
through school we were told
that energy is the force
that makes things happen...
Right. ...that pushes
things forward.
And it does, but they
failed to teach us
that there's two
different speeds of energy.
Energy's really information
that moves.
So there's information that
tells a stone to be a stone.
There's information that tells
that stone to be a stone,
or a thought to be a thought,
and everything's
always moving...
Mm-hmm. ...within those objects.
But subtle energy is that 98%
of the energy that we don't see,
that we don't know
how quite to measure
or very easily measure
right now.
So it's actually information
that moves, but it moves faster
than the speed of light,
whereas what we're able to see
in this stone is
energy that moves slower
than the speed of light.
So subtle energy is basically
energy that moves faster
than the speed of light.
Now, was this energy -- when
the universe was created, say...
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
...was it always there?
You know, where did
it come from?
Well, that's kind of the
big bang argument, isn't it?
It's always been there.
And if we study quantum
physics, which is kind
of that ooey [phonetic],
spooky kind of physics that is
of so much interest these days
because it's the only brand
of science that really explains
the inevitable, invisible,
you know kind of what
makes things really happen.
That energy was there; it
was just very condensed.
You know it could
have been as --
as you know condensed in an --
an area smaller than this, or...
Mm-hmm. ...smaller than a
pinprick, or a molecule.
The question usually is
did that energy exist
in bigger form before,
which it probably did,
and then collapsed, and then
opened up and spread out again.
So that energy's
always been there.
And even now scientists
will tell you
out in the universe most energy
is what they call dark matter.
Right. We can't measure it.
We can't measure it.
We can't see it.
So wouldn't that be a fun job,
to be a scientist and sit around
and figure out all the
things you can't see?
I like my job better than that.
[Laughter] You have a fun job.
Because I get to talk to
people like you all the time.
You talk to really
cool people...
Yeah. ...about really
interesting things.
So the energy's always
been there.
It's just about is it
appearing, or is it in a form
where as human beings
we can't perceive it?
But we perceive very
little energy.
I mean, our eyes only
see 2% of visual light.
But you know some
people give off energy.
Yes. You can feel it.
Yes, you can.
They walk into a
room, you just know.
You just know.
They -- they glow.
That's right.
People want to be around them.
Or conversely.
Or the other way.
Exactly. There's
some other people
that suck energy from you.
Kind of like a black hole.
Right. Yep, a vampire.
Exactly, you've seen them both.
How do you react to that?
How do you handle the person --
let's talk about the
vampire, first of all.
Mm-hmm. And -- and they
call them psychic vampires.
They do. How do you
react to that person
who may not even know
what they're doing...
That's right.
...but they come into a room ...
...and they can literally
empty it.
I've seen it happen before.
I've seen it happen;
I've experienced it.
I... It's sad.
It's -- it's very
sad, and they don't --
don't usually know it, either.
They don't succeed in life.
Right. They don't know why.
Right. They claim that there's
a cloud over their head.
Kind of Pig-Pen in
Charlie Brown.
They're -- they're
miserable within themselves.
Yeah, they are.
And they have difficult
times in relationships.
Right, right.
All these things happen to them.
That's right.
Do they create that themselves?
Or were the just
dealt the wrong cards?
Well, at some level
they're creating it.
I happen to believe,
however, at least 80%
of the issues affecting
us didn't start with us,
that there's not a lot
of destiny [chuckle]
by the time we even come out of
the womb that we're really able
to steer or be in charge of.
You know this person, Cyndi
Dale, is a product of my soul,
you know where I've been
and what I've done before,
but also my family system,
where everybody's been,
and what they've done before.
You know what my culture has
taught me, and there's a lot
of factors even in deciding how
my family system affects me.
Around the genes, for instance,
there's a chemical suit
called the "epigenetics"
that contains all our
ancestors' memories,
so great grandma could
be inside of me saying,
"Just take advantage of them,"
or, "You'll never get ahead
if you don't steal
people's energy."
Or let's say I'm born to
the type of mom or dad
who really didn't want
me, maybe I was adopted...
Who would not want you?
Well, me, yes [laughter].
But you know that's what
happens with a lot of the people
who vampire or steal
other's subtle energy,
is maybe they weren't
wanted as a kid,
and so they weren't
given anything.
So what are you going to
do if you're not getting...
Right. You -- you take it.
...if you're not given...
You take it.
Yeah, you're going to --
you're going to steal.
Let's -- let's get a show of
hands just from the audience.
How many of you have come
across these psychic
vampires in your life?
They just exhaust you, even you.
How old are you, by the way?
Nine. Nine years old.
You've come across that already.
Almost everyone has that person
in their life that they knew --
I've got a great story,
Cyndi, got to tell you,
back in St. Lewis there's a
nice lounge, bar, restaurant,
at the Ritz Carlton there.
Yes. And it's very close
to my house, and it's close
to the cave, the
studio in St. Lewis.
And I would frequent
there a lot.
It'd be very simple
to get there.
There was always a guy
sitting at this lounge bar,
and nobody was around the guy.
Oh, no. Ever.
And that's sad.
And within 20 minutes
most of people
in that lobby lounge left.
And the manager couldn't
figure out what was wrong.
He would -- he would
have consultants come in,
and they would look at the
décor, and they'd change it.
No, that's not it.
They would look at the
bartenders; they'd change them.
prices; they fixed them.
Yet every time they did that,
and there's -- here's this guy;
he's always there sitting in
the -- in his little spot.
People would leave
within 20 minutes.
It never dawned on him
that it was that guy.
One day -- I had -- I had
observed this over the course
of about a year, and I knew
exactly what was going on.
Not a bad guy except he just...
It's a pattern.
...made you uncomfortable.
Kind of creepy.
Just... Mm-hmm.
He just drained you.
You could go in there
with energy;
you could walk out like this.
Exhausted.
And after a year I said, "You
know what, he's doing it;
doesn't know it, and
I went to talk to him.
And when you talked to the
guy -- his name was Andy.
Mm-hmm. Poor Andy.
Yeah [chuckle].
He -- he would literally
drain you in a conversation.
He didn't say anything
bad; he was a nice guy.
I know he -- he just --
just sucks out of you.
But it was just -- he
just kept sucking it out.
Mm-hmm I started
telling him, "Andy,
you've got to change some
things about your life,"
because he kept sharing me
that nothing worked for him.
He'd been divorced; his kids
didn't talk to him; I mean,
you name it; it all
happened to him.
And I started working
with him about that.
Many of the things
that you've got
in  The Subtle Body
Encyclopedia ...
Encyclopedia , mm-hmm.
And sure enough, he changed
his image a little bit.
He changed is style.
He was a little more
outgoing to people.
Rather than being negative
when somebody came up to him,
it was partly sunny,
not partly cloudy.
Mm-hmm. And within six months
the Ritz Carlton noticed
that more people were coming in.
Isn't that fascinating?
And he somehow was able to
get rid of that negativity
that he had around him.
Yeah, yeah.
Is that what you mean
by the subtle energy?
That's exactly what I mean.
It's that energy that's inside
of us, that's around us.
It's the unseen self who's
very, very busy responding
to what happened in
childhood, maybe before then;
responding to what's
happening in the room.
And is patterned to respond.
It's really literally telling
people how to treat us.
So my subtle energy, that
invisible energy that is me,
which is, again, I think at
least 98% more than what it is
that you're seeing;
it's all front-loaded.
You're -- you're
giving off energy.
[Laughter] I am.
I mean, can you feel it here?
Yeah, yeah.
Well [laughter], it's because
I'm happy to be here you know.
Good. Yeah.
Where'd you -- where'd
you fly in from?
Minneapolis.
Oh, okay. Great town.
I lived there for a year.
I -- I -- oh, it's a fun city.
Yeah, it is.
It's very warm.
Yes. I do have to say that
being her I am missing a couple
14-year-old baseball games,
and I hate admitting I'm kind
of happy to miss those.
It's like 45 degrees at home.
Yep. It's not -- talk about...
It's not the same.
...an energy drain.
Yeah. [Laughter]
Nothing worse than a --
wearing three blankets while
you're watching the ball go not
the way it's supposed
to, anyway.
Well, with -- with subtle
energy can people like Andy,
without knowing it, changing
some things primarily
because I helped him, can
they do it on their own?
How do these people
know what they're doing
in the first place?
Well, quite often people
don't know what they're doing.
We don't know what
we're responding to.
We don't know that we're drawing
those layoffs to us potentially;
we don't know that the reason
people turn a little sour
around us, or happy around
us, or interested in us,
has to do with what it
is that we're emanating.
So you're exactly right, George.
The first thing we have to
do is become aware of it,
that we play a role in it.
Not in a way that we shame
ourselves, that we feel either
like we're the victim
of how we were raised
or how we've been trained
to be, but once we start
to become aware, you know
really then our mind kicks in;
our brain kicks in
and starts to say,
"Let's change the information
in that subtle energy."
So instead of telling people,
"I'm kind of a bad person," or,
"I'm a sucker for
bad deals," or,
"I need to marry another
alcoholic," all right,
that's a good one, right?
Right. You know instead of
sending that information out,
we can start to very consciously
decide what information we want
to send out and what it is we
want to hang around or receive.
There's some very interesting
studies at Institute
of HeartMath -- as an
example, that have showed
that when people go into the
world coming from a place
of gratitude, a positive
emotion...
Mm-hmm. ...you know what?
They just see more and
more to be grateful for.
Absolutely.
They're happy.
And they're healthier people.
They're healthier people;
their body's healthier;
they get more promotions.
Mm-hmm. Because frankly
people trust them more.
And they see the connections
between things instead
of the disconnections.
The American Heart Association
just came out with a report
that says if you have a pet...
Yeah. ...a dog or a
cat, you are more likely
to have less heart disease...
Yeah. ...than somebody
who doesn't.
It's amazing.
Let's take some questions for
Cyndi Dale about subtle energy,
about psychic vampires,
about positivity.
Yes? Our little nine-year-old.
When you feel like nobody
really wants to be around you,
and you're just not
around many people,
what can that contribute to?
Well, it must makes me feel sad.
Isn't that a sad kind of
situation when we feel
like no one wants to be
around us, and we're not
around a lot of people?
You know so that could be
someplace inside, you know,
where we have a lot of sadness
or we tell ourselves maybe
that people aren't
going to like us.
Sometimes we don't know
where we get those messages
or where we get those inside
kind of voices, and so it's not
that hard to change that.
That's the good news.
To start telling ourselves, "You
know I'm a really cool person,"
or to start catching
ourselves with compliments,
everything that we do,
even if we make a mistake.
You know I even give myself a
compliment when I make a mistake
because somebody told me once
that if you haven't made five
mistakes before breakfast you're
not really trying anything new.
So [chuckle] I'm always telling
myself, "You did a good job
of screwing that up, Cyndi."
And so that's the
best thing to do is
to start really liking
ourselves,
giving ourselves a
lot of compliments,
and then people start
to like us even more.
They start to go, "Hey,
that's a really nice person.
She really likes herself,"
or, "He really likes himself.
And so they're going
to like me."
And you know that's kind
of another secret is
if we show people we like them,
they tend to like us better.
People like to think a
lot about themselves,
and that's -- that's great.
So if you show interest in them,
they'll probably show
some interest in you, too.
So thank you for the question.
Do you have a lot of friends?
Mm-hmm. I bet you do.
I bet you do.
But sometimes they don't
hang around with me.
It depends [laughter].
And -- and they could just be
going through a bad day, too.
You never know.
Well, we -- we've got
high technology here.
We've got a question
from someone way
out there for you, Cyndi.
Terrific. Hi, Cyndi.
I'm Jessica from Portland,
and I was wondering
if subtle energy affects
my ability to make money?
Ah, subtle energy...
Wow. ...and the ability
to make money.
You know what let's go right
to the pocketbook, right?
Yep. It certainly does, and
we've almost been talking
about that, you know, that
if we think we're worthy;
if we think we deserve
to be rewarded,
to make money, to receive for...
Mm-hmm. ...everything
we're doing,
guess what's going to happen?
That's exactly what's
going to happen.
Positive things will happen.
Positive things will happen,
or we'll leave a situation
in which we're not
being rewarded
because we'll feel
good about ourselves.
But it's the subtle
energy that tells people --
you know, it's kind
of like little Pac-Men
that are leading
our body and going
through what's called
our energetic field.
It's those little Pac-Men that
are telling people you know,
"I really am not
worth very much," or,
"You don't really have
to pay me very much."
So it's the messages
we're giving off
that people are responding to.
So -- and I think that's
even more important
than how somebody's
dressed, you know,
if they're wearing
the right suit.
I, years and years ago,
worked in public relations
and corporate social
responsibility,
and there was one
young man who started
out from the -- from
the inner city.
Didn't have any decent
clothes, no decent shoes.
He started, and within two
years I watched him fly up...
Mm-hmm. ...to an account
executive position you know.
But it was his...
He was positive, yeah.
He was positive, but not just
in his smiles and his attitude.
Yeah. You could literally feel
the energy coming off that guy,
and you wanted to help him.
Sure. You wanted to help him.
Absolutely.
And you have to have the
brain power to get there.
I mean... Yes, you do.
...nothing just happens.
I mean, if -- if you are in the
right place at the right time
but you're not prepared for
it you're going to fall.
Exactly. Well, and I don't
quite go along with the ideas
about all the positive-thinking,
you know groupies,
that you just have to
think to make it happen.
You know think and grow rich.
Mm-hmm. I mean, I can sit at
home and think and eat bonbons,
and ain't nothing
going to happen
for me, either [laughter].
Do you know it doesn't mean
Reader's Digest Publishing
Company's going to show
up on my doorstep just
because I'm trying to...
You wish. ...program my subtle
energy to make that happen.
So, you know, there's other
factors because subtle energy is
in our soul; it's in our heart.
You know it's that
spirit part of us as well.
You know so even if our mind is
saying, "I get that job," or,
"I want to be paid that much per
year," there's other parts of us
that kind of can outweigh and --
and vote a little louder
than you know just
what we're thinking
about might be able to do, too.
Let's take a question
for Cyndi Dale.
Who else has one?
Yes, ma'am?
Hi, Cyndi.
Hello. I was wondering
if you know of a way
that we can use our subtle
energy to affect our metabolism,
to affect our physical energy,
and our weight control
or lack of?
Absolutely.
Subtle energy is probably
one of the best way to --
to get into a weight issue.
And for most people it means
that they're carrying
too much weight.
Don't we wish that it
was the opposite end?
Well, you know inside
of the body are what
are called chakras,
and some of them are right
around the body, too.
Those are energy organs or
energy bodies that are able
to take physical energy and turn
them into the subtle energy,
and subtle energy and turn
them into physical energy.
And usually when we
have weight issues it's
because one particular energy
center or chakra is really low
and not processing
enough subtle energy
so our metabolism goes low,
and that's right
down in our hip area.
And so what we want to
do is focus on working
through any safety issues
we have, security issues
that we have, tell ourselves
that we're safe; we're secure
because oftentimes weight is a
way to stay energetically safe,
is to keep us from taking
on other people's energies,
their feelings, their
thoughts, their needs.
You know most people who hold a
little weight are really great
codependents [laughter].
And we're energy codependents.
We just take on those feelings;
we take on people's needs.
You know -- and so our
metabolism is working
to help other people
rather than ourselves.
And so -- get what I'm saying?
Mm-hmm. And so saying,
"I get to be safe.
I get to be secure,"
and to start telling
ourselves you know,
"I get to use my
energy for myself.
I don't have to use my energy
to help and fix everybody else."
That's probably 70% of it
right there, right there.
And the physical component is
that that energy center relates
to the adrenals, so we do
a little bit of the subtle
and we do a little
bit of the physical.
And so to help our adrenals by
walking, exercising, you know,
and paying attention
to our stress levels
is also really helpful.
But just the adrenals alone
that's not going to fix it...
Mm-hmm. ...if we're still taking
on other people's energies.
So just decide you're
not going to do that.
Thank you.
Cyndi, around Easter we did a
show on the Shroud of Turin...
Yeah, yeah.
...about this incredible
cloth...
Yeah. ...that could very
well show the imprinted body
of Jesus.
It sounds like they're
going that way with it.
And it sounds like it's
also energy, right?
Does the body have that
ability to just burst like that?
It absolutely does.
It can imprint.
And that's probably coming
from what I just introduced,
the ideas of those chakras...
Right. Those lower
chakras are very physical.
They're not just psychic
and woo-woo [phonetic]
and out there.
They're actually also
processing physical energy.
So it is possible when somebody
really gets those activated
that literally physical energy
-- it's electrical energy...
Right. ...just kind
of discharges.
And sometimes that's
what's behind somebody
when they're upset.
Some people say, "Hey,
I blow out lights.
You know the overhead
lights go out."
My oldest son does that.
Yeah. Whenever he's
mad I stay away.
Or streetlights.
[Laughter] Or streetlights.
Yeah. I stay away because there
go the light bulbs, all right?
Yeah. Or things...
I've done that.
Yeah, yeah.
Or something just falls over.
You know it's like
the lamp falls over,
or whatever that might be.
Some people might think
that's spirits, but if --
if it's us and we're really
excited or really upset,
that's our electrical
energy discharging.
Right. Tell us about
these points,
these chakra points in the body.
Where exactly are they?
Well, there's a number of them,
and there's always of course
in any field a big argument
about how many there
are and where they are.
I say there's 12.
Some people say there's
nine; some seven.
Okay. All right, doesn't
make any difference.
You know there are
whatever there are.
Right. And we're just continuing
to unfold that information.
And they're everywhere?
Well... Can you point to...
I can point.
All right.
So the basic ones are --
the first chakra's in
the hip area right there.
Okay. And that controls
physical activity.
The second is in the abdomen,
and that has to do
with emotions.
All right.
The third is in the solar
plexus, and that has to do with,
well obviously digestion,
but will power.
The fourth is the heart...
Okay. ...which is
love and healing.
The fifth is in the
communication center
in the throat where we
obviously speak but also hear...
Mm-hmm. ...you know what
it is that's inaudible
to other people.
The sixth chakra is in the
forehead, and that's the place
of what they call clairvoyance,
or getting visions or pictures.
All right.
And the seventh is on the top
of the head, which is kind
of that opening into spirit.
And in my book [chuckle], or my
books, there are several others.
There's one right
on top of the head.
Okay. Through which the mystics
or the shamans go visit
other dimensions and places.
There's one way above the head,
which is actually really
universal and ties us together.
Which is still part of us?
It is part of us.
It's just not physically
attached to us?
Exactly, because these
chakras aren't just in the body
or around the body, though
they all locate somewhere
or attach into the body.
They open up into energy fields
that emanate from us, as well.
And we're born with
these chakras?
We are born with them.
We're born with them.
They activate at
different time periods.
So -- so some of them
are kind of dormant...
Right. ...when we're born
because we need, for instance,
the physical one
when we're born.
And then we open
up our emotions,
and at age four we
open up the mental one
where you know the
power struggles.
Can you magnify them...
Absolutely.
...where they're even stronger?
Absolutely, absolutely.
And we need to most of the time,
because I think for most of us
as we're growing up we
-- we're kind of dimmed.
Our light is more
or less dimmed.
We're told not to
be so loud, or...
Right. ...not to talk about
what we know, or don't talk
about that spirit on the
ceiling, or whatever it is.
So usually by the time we go
to adulthood we need
to magnify them.
If you're ill -- we'll
get into energy healing
in a second, but
if you're ill...
Yeah. ...does something
happen to those chakras
in any specific spot
of the body?
Well, absolutely.
You know if I have a chest
cold that chakra's going
to be cloudy, the
one that's related
to that part of the body.
If I have a cough and you
could see my chakra...
Mm-hmm. ...
[clears throat] you're
going to see kind of a lot
of clouds in and around here.
Now there's a bit
of an argument.
Does the chakra go down
and then the body does?
Or does the body go down
and then the chakra?
And pull the chakra down?
And it really works both ways.
It's the old chicken and
egg routine, isn't it?
Exactly, because a lot of
healers actually can tell
if somebody's going to get
sick because they're looking
in the chakras intuitively or
maybe even using some devices
and checking what's happening
in the field, and they're going,
"Hey, there's breast
cancer coming in," or,
"There's a smudge right here
aiming for your stomach;
you may get the flu soon."
So we're very open-ended,
complex beings,
and this subtle energy
tells us what might happen,
as well as what is happening, as
well as what did happen as well.
Now do people have the
ability to concentrate
on specific chakra regions...
Absolutely, absolutely.
...to fix?
Yeah, and a lot of meditators,
that's what they're
doing you know.
I mean, they -- usually
people who meditate --
which is very good for you,
the studies all show that --
they're usually really
focused on the top chakras
because they want a
spiritual experience.
Right. But let's say
you're not feeling well,
or let's say you need money,
or let's say you're tired
of feeling somebody else's
feelings all the time.
Or they're stressed out
to the max or something.
Well, there you go.
I go lower in the body.
Right. Because then you want
to go to the more physical part
of you, and you want to ask
for additional subtle energy.
That's all healing is is,
"Hey, send me some good stuff."
Mm-hmm. Right?
"Let me open to some
good energy that's going
to sweep out the bad energy."
So we focus there.
I want to tell you
another story.
Yeah. I have no idea how this
happened, but you tell me...
Yeah. ...what you think.
All right.
Good old friend of mine in
St. Louis, name was Butch.
Mm-hmm. Bartender.
Mm-hmm. I seem to have a lot of
bartender stories [laughter].
Keep them going [laughter]!
Those are spirits, too.
Yeah. I went in to -- went
in to see him one day,
and he went, "George!
I've got about three
weeks left to live!"
He had cancer all over his
throat, and he's still working.
He had to.
And I said, "What are
you talking about?"
Mm-hmm. And he said, "It's
-- it's going really fast,
and they gave me
about three weeks."
Wow. I said, "Butch, is there
anything I can do for you?"
And he said, "You're
always positive;
you're always full of energy.
Hug me; do something."
"Send me some."
Mm-hmm. So I don't
know why I did this...
Right. ...but something
just possessed me...
Yeah. So I said,
"Just come around here
to the -- to the front here."
Yeah. So he came around from
the bar and, very frail,
and this was 10 years ago.
I gave him a hug, and
I touched his throat.
Mm-hmm. I'm not a healer, but
I felt a burst of something...
Mm-hmm. ...coming
from me to him.
It was almost as if I had stuck
my finger in an electric socket.
It was that kind of feeling.
And he felt it, too.
And he said, "Thanks."
Yeah. And -- and he
went back to work.
Yeah. I went back
to Los Angeles.
Yeah. And I assumed I'd
get a call in a few weeks
that our friend Butch...
That there's a funeral.
...had died.
Mm-hmm. I came back
about six months later,
back to St. Louis,
Butch is still there.
And he said, "You're not going
to believe this, but it's gone."
Amazing, beautiful.
I said, "What's gone?"
He said, "The tumor is gone.
You did that."
And I said, "Butch, I
didn't do anything."
And he said, "No, you did that."
Well, subsequently he was
a guest on  Coast to Coast
as we talked about energy
healing, and this guy went
on the air and said that
his tumor was -- was gone.
He's still alive, by
the way, so it's now...
That's great.
...it's now about 12 years.
And -- and he said he's
convinced it was whatever
that burst of energy
was from me to him.
Now, am I a healer?
I don't think I am, but
something happened to him
that day, and the
doctors are baffled.
They gave him three weeks, and
he's now into his 12th year,
and he's still going strong.
What happened?
Well, maybe we could say we're
all healers, and include you
in the -- the group, in
the community of all of us
because we're all
made of subtle energy.
We can all direct it, and we can
all program that subtle energy
for what it is that we desire.
And that's what you did,
coming probably actually
from your heart because when
you're hugging somebody that's
your strongest energy
field, 5,000 times stronger
than the energy field that
emanates from the brain.
You know your care, your
concern, your desire,
your love literally
programmed your subtle energy,
your electromagnetic energy to
go in there and to shift things.
And you know this
is -- this is why...
And it was fast.
It's fast, but this is why I
define subtle energy as energy
that moves faster than
the speed of light.
Back in 2002 in a
research center
in New Jersey there
was an experiment
in which there was a chamber.
And the researchers
get this statement;
I think this is super cool, said
that this light, this particle
of light or part of a particle
of light, entered the chamber
so fast it disappeared
before it entered.
So with subtle energy
we don't have
to obey the traffic
cops of the universe.
I mean you potentially
energetically could have even
released the tumor at the
causal point of the tumor,
so it could have been as
if he never had the tumor.
Without knowing what
I was doing you know.
We don't need to know.
I think sometimes we're better
off not getting too much
in the way, to be really honest.
Just let it happen?
Just letting it happen,
just saying,
"What should be,
let's let it be."
Because I do think 80% of most
problems are just other people's
energy in the way or programs...
And do you think the --
the energy that may have
come from me to him...
Mm-hmm. ...was like
chemotherapy or radiation?
Completely.
It literally attacked
the cancer cell?
Completely, and it's --
and it radiated it out.
And, you know, light or energy
is electromagnetic radiation,
so it's literally like
you radiated that out.
And at some level he
must have been willing.
You know there has to
be a willing spirit...
Well he's the one
who generated it.
...somewhere inside.
Yeah. Exactly.
He generate -- and I
got to tell you, I mean,
I would not believe it...
It's great.
...had somebody told
me that story...
Mm-hmm. ...but he's
a living example.
He's a living example.
And it's that intention.
You know there's been a number
of researchers throughout time,
both scientific and
spiritual, that talk about,
"What is that amazing power,
and how does it work?"
And subtle energy is more the
scientific way to get to it.
I like some of the researchers,
too, the more spiritual of them
who just call it grace,
just love in motion.
Right. Love that's empowered,
that just -- it -- it hovers --
there was one particular healer,
Bruno Groening and a number
of others years and
years ago who said,
"You know it's always around us.
We just have to feel
worthy enough to let it in."
worthy enough.
And maybe we need someone
like you who cares about us
to help open up that trapdoor
and bring it in, as well.
And then I started to
experiment with this.
Oh, this sounds even
more [inaudible].
Then it started getting
interesting...
Yeah, I bet.
...and -- and fun.
What'd you end up doing?
I had a fellow worker in
St. Louis who had a tumor
or a growth on her neck.
Oh, mm-hmm.
And she didn't know if
it was malignant or not,
and I did the same thing.
You know...
Wow! ...I -- and this time
it came from me to her.
I said... Mm-hmm.
Her name was Francine.
She's not with us anymore;
she died of a heart
attack years later.
But she -- I said, "Let me
touch that, whatever it is."
Mm-hmm. And she went,
"Well, okay."
And you know so I
reached back here...
Back there.
...and just held onto it,
felt that burst again...
My tumor's going, too.
...felt that.
Mm-hmm, yeah.
And sure enough, it was gone.
That's beautiful.
Same thing.
We don't know if it was
ever cancerous, but...
But it doesn't matter.
...whatever it was...
It doesn't matter.
...it was gone.
Can you train people to do that?
Or do you have to
be born that way?
No, you can train
people, absolutely.
There is an author William
Bengston, very interesting man,
Ph.D., scientist, had a psychic
person show up in his life
and teach him how
to do healing work,
and he didn't really
buy into it.
But he -- people were healing.
And he would just say energy --
basically, it's like energy in.
You know, let's just do the
right thing with this energy.
He took a number of
students from the university
who did not believe
in subtle healing...
Right. ...did not want
anything to do with it,
and he trained them to do it
even though they didn't believe
that it was possible.
They thought it was a
bunch of hooey, right?
bunch of hooey, yep.
And they were still
able to do it, yeah.
So a lot of it really is this
knowing we can do it will open
up those faculties.
I think some people, to your
point, are born more open,
more willing, with
different gifts.
Maybe it's genetic.
It could be genetic.
You know maybe my mother
or my grandmother had it.
Absolutely.
Do you know in my family
my dad's mom saw ghosts
and talked about them.
She could see them, didn't like
houses where they hung out.
Right. Wouldn't let her
husband buy those houses.
They thought she was a little
cracked, but well here it shows
up two generations later.
And there's families where the
healing power is passed down,
and it becomes a calling.
But we all have these
capacities.
I think -- I think
sometimes, George,
the question is what do
we feel more called to do?
You know is it to do
that or do accounting?
I mean, you know, for someone
like me who can't even keep,
right, like a tally...
Mm-hmm [laughter].
...hiring an accounting
person is
like a very healing
proposition, too.
So... Oh, I -- I always have
accountants [laughter] do
my taxes.
Exactly. You know I'm not going
to fool around with that stuff.
Oh, me, either.
Huh-uh. I just give them the
material and say, "Have at it."
But we all have these chakras;
we all have these energy fields.
So we all have the capacity to
open them for ourselves, and --
you know, and I think then
a sensing to want to give
to others, to want to
help others, as well.
Maybe I should fire my
accountant [laughter].
I'm always paying every year.
I don't understand.
We -- we don't know how much
they do save us, though, do we?
No, we don't.
Yeah. How did you get
involved in all of this?
Do you know it was
more of a quest.
I did not have a career goal
of being an energy healer
or an author of energy books.
I wanted to run businesses
and write books,
but I was thinking more stories.
Which you've done.
[Laughter] I have done, just
in a whole different area.
But you know I did come out of
childhood with this question,
"What the heck am I doing?
How come I can see
colors around people?
How come my hands heat up when
somebody around me is sick?"
Yeah. "How come I
can hear spirits?
How come other people can't?"
You know and honest to gosh,
growing up in the Lutheran
system you don't get a lot
of answers.
You know except for this...
Right. Kind of like...
Well, you probably don't
get a lot of answers...
Mm-hmm. ...in most religions.
Do you? I don't think you do.
Maybe a little -- maybe Hindu,
maybe some of the indigenous...
They don't understand it.
They don't understand
it, and it's --
it's kind of hidden knowledge
inside of most religions.
So this little girl,
Cyndi Dale...
Yeah. You're picking up on this,
and then you just carried it
through with you, or what?
I carried it through -- well,
I actually shut it down,
to be honest, when I was 12.
I decided I didn't want
to have anything to do
with this world anymore,
and I'm a little stubborn.
So I honest to gosh told my
parents, "I'm out of here.
I'm going to die."
Well, of course like
what does that mean?
At 12 years old?
At 12. Isn't that kind of odd?
I just said, I'm done.
I don't want to do this anymore.
And I got very sick
and kept losing weight.
They just thought I had the flu.
Hmm. Within two or three days,
and I literally remember
leaving my body...
Right. ...and saying,
"I did it [laughter].
I got rid of it.
I made it."
And you know I didn't see any
great -- great big white light.
The angels didn't come
with their trumpets.
All I heard was a voice.
I'm looking down at my
body; I'm starting to leave,
and this voice says, "You
haven't done anything yet."
I said, "Well, I don't
really think I need to.
I mean, I'm -- I'm
-- I feel done."
You were 12 going
on 30, weren't you?
Yeah, a little bit.
And it said, "You
got to go back."
I said, "I don't
want to go back."
And it said, "You got to go
back," and smushed, there I was.
So, you know, before then I was
very creative, very intuitive.
I closed it down I was so mad.
And then it started opening
because I went to therapy.
Okay. At about 19
it started opening.
And then it came back?
Yeah. I heard voices;
I did this and that,
and I was very fortunate to have
a therapist who looked at me
and didn't say I
was just crazy...
Right. ...right?
Right. She said, "I
think you're psychic.
You're not -- you're
not just OCD" --
or whatever it is they...
Right. ...told me I
was, "You're psychic."
And so then I wanted to
find out what it was,
and as I journeyed
-- I traveled a lot.
I was fortunate to travel
to a lot of other countries.
I sought out healers;
I sought out psychics.
I wanted to learn, like...
You couldn't have enough, right?
I -- I just drank it in.
I wanted to meet the people in
their countries who did this,
you know, who could hold a stone
and say, "Oh, there's a spirit
in there," or who could touch
people and do the healing work,
or you know who grew
the plants...
Right. ...the medicinal
plants...
Right. ...and knew
what they were saying,
and what it is that
they could do.
So I spent decades just --
just doing whatever I
could do to go to learn.
Aren't you glad you came back...
I am glad I came back.
...from your disagreement?
Yeah. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I am.
So someone up there knew what
he was doing, even if I didn't.
Well, you know...
Which is probably the
case most of the time.
There are a lot of people
who are beginning to believe
that the body is
electric, and that this...
Yes. ...energy that
surrounds it is there;
it's real; that we tap into it.
And -- and I think
people like you, Cyndi,
have had this innate ability...
Mm-hmm. ...to utilize that.
Mm-hmm. And to run with it.
And I think a lot
of young people do.
You know I think that they
learn sometimes to not talk
about it or to turn it off.
I actually even remember being
in my mom's womb and being able
to see the sound
waves that came in,
just see them literally come in.
And I don't think I'm unusual.
I think it's unusual that I'm
here talking about it, you know,
but I think a lot of
people have those...
Maybe it was destiny
you know it?
...kind of experiences.
I can remember back...
You got to give a lot to that.
...when I was 18 months old...
Mm-hmm. ...that's as far
back as I remember, but...
That's still young.
...not from the womb.
That would have been
a trip, I think.
It was odd.
Mm-hmm, yeah.
Kind of waking up and
seeing sound hit you.
I'd like to broadcast from
Mom's womb [laughter], hmm.
Explain what it is,
what's going on.
That's your next show, isn't it?
That's right [laughter].
Let's take some questions
for Cyndi.
Just raise your hands.
Yes, way in the back here.
These energies, do you think
they can malfunction maybe
somehow related to
spontaneous human combustion?
I love that question,
and I thought George was going
there a little bit before.
I do think it's possible.
I've actually done
a little research
on spontaneous combustion
through the centuries and,
you know, and there is a lot of
evidence, even if it's anecdotal
that people have
been able to do that.
So I think it can
get that extreme.
I think we're so, frankly as a
culture right now, out of touch
with that subtle energy
and with the power of it
and how we can direct it that I
don't think it's going to happen
for many people anytime
soon [laughter].
And I think when it -- it occurs
that way is because there's
so much emotional upset --
it's because there's so much
agony inside of somebody that --
that that's been, I think,
the -- the result of it.
But the...
Hmm. ...the other side of that,
we can tip it over, you know,
and talk about how what if
we could harness that kind
of power inside of us and
blast out a tumor, right?
Or get rid of...
Remember the movie  Carrie ?
Yes. She had that
kind of energy.
She had that, absolutely.
So we all have it.
You know in different cultures
it's called kundalini, or --
or life energy, or chi,
or whatever, prana...
Right. ...word we want to use.
But what if we really could be
that open to it and focus it
in a good way, even if
it's to be creative?
Well, that's important; as you
say focus it in a good way.
Mm-hmm, exactly.
Because some people
might abuse it.
They can abuse it.
Yeah. And again, often
without knowing it.
Exactly. So I think a lot
of times people use it
and do a little bit of
brainwashing with it, actually.
You know because our thoughts
actually contain information,
you know, and so it is
possible for people to kind
of move their thoughts
around someone else.
I mean, we only have to go back
to one of the worst examples,
I think, across history
and Hitler.
And, you know, it's probably a
little-known fact he actually
had an entity attached
to him he got when he was
in the barracks during
World War I,
that he actually
heard a voice say
to him, "Get out of the way."
Yeah. And boom.
Mm-hmm. You know everybody
else was killed, and he wasn't.
So he misused that energy
and was able to really kind
of brainwash people to following
his ideas because he was able
to so substantiate that
-- that subtle energy.
Let's go to one
of our long-distance
questions for Cyndi Dale.
Hi, Cyndi.
I'm Jeff from Chicago, and I was
wondering why the subtle body is
important to understand
in regular, daily life.
Isn't that an important
question?
Because it's really not just
about doing these really big
and important things,
or impressing people,
or making a lot of money.
I mean, we're here
to live our lives.
You know, I'm here
to go to a lot
of 14-year-old baseball
[laughter], to be honest.
Lots of baseball.
Lots of baseball, two teams,
and football, you know.
And so I think the most
beautiful application
of subtle energy is
for the everyday.
It's how we get up
in the morning
and greet the world you
know, and say to ourselves,
"You know I'm going to
be in a positive place.
I'm going to see
things with gratitude.
I'm going to take what comes.
I'm going to use my subtle
energy to get guidance."
Mm-hmm. You know, if I need to
open to guidance, you know what
to do, how to handle
situations that come up,
I'm going to use it to
keep myself calm if people
around me are frustrated
or frustrating me.
Maybe I can be that peaceful
person in a business meeting.
Sure. You know, which
is infectious as well.
Or you know sometimes it's --
it's even more bold than that.
I remember not too many years
ago my son Gabriel had a paper
route, which meant
Mom had a paper route.
And I hired help as often as
I could which meant we were
in the hole on the
paper route income...
Right. ...every single
week [laughter].
Using money on your
old business, huh?
That's right.
But it kept Gabriel busy.
It kept Gabriel busy, and one
time we were just about both
of us to cross the street.
I was on one side,
and he was on another,
and I heard this voice really
loudly saying, "Stop him."
I mean, I couldn't
have missed this voice.
So I immediately
yelled to Gabe, "Stop.
Don't move."
And a car...
Yep. ...barreled around the
side and would have clipped him.
Would have got him.
Just like that.
That's happened to
me many times, too.
There's that thing in us.
That's right.
It -- it's all tied together,
the -- the subtle energy,
the healing, the precognition,
the intuitiveness,
all this stuff.
It is. It's -- it's
all built in.
Let's take another
question for Cyndi.
Yes, sir? Hi, Cyndi.
I wanted to ask about the colors
that you would see in the auras.
I get a lot of --
I hear people talk,
and it's the feelings you have
at the time, your emotions
that can change and
direct the colors.
But is it -- is there
colors that are --
kind of show who we are
instead of who we are now?
Oh, I love that question.
Thank you.
And as you're speaking, yes.
Yes, there are a lot
of colors that shift.
Mm-hmm. So when I'm
angry I'm going
to have more red around me.
Okay. If I'm in a more
spiritual place I'm going
to have a little bit
more white, or purple,
or some of those really
high-energy kind of colors.
But I do believe there
are fixed colors.
I call them the personality
colors or our spirit colors
that just don't change.
Now I kind of see them,
for those of us who do more
of the intuitive
work and want to...
Sure. ...copy this, you know,
just a little bit
outside of the body.
They're not in a traditional
field or auric layer.
They're kind of in between them,
and they're a little bit more
static than they are dynamic.
And so those tell me who
that person really is.
It tells me their
spiritual qualities or gifts.
If they're sick,
different color?
No, no. If they're -- no.
The only thing that
really changes is
if they haven't been
able to really use
that gift it's a little lighter;
it's a little more tempered;
it's not bold or vibrant.
Right. Because they haven't
come from that place, so --
so let's just say, for instance,
I look at three different
people,
and they have three different
colors around their heart.
Now a normal psychic view would
be that we see green there.
Okay. So let's say I see
somebody who has a lot of green
in this area around their heart.
I'd say, "You know
you're a natural healer,"
because that's the
healing center.
But let's say somebody
has a lot of blue there.
I would say, "You know in
relationships you really need
to be able to understand
somebody,"
because blue's about
communication.
Mm-hmm. I'd say, "You're an --
you're the understanding person.
You're that person who always
has a good word for somebody.
You know everything that's going
on in other people's
relationships."
Let's say there's a
lot of yellow there.
I would -- which is kind of more
of an administrative
energy or color.
I'd say, "You love
accounting [laughter].
That turns you on.
You like working
with information."
So it's kind of a
whole different system,
and if people want to practice
it, it's really about asking
to get a sense of other
people's permanent,
more spiritual personality
rather than the stuff
that changes on a
day-to-day basis.
The late American prophet Edgar
Casey used to read auras...
Yes. ...right around
people, and one day he was
in a high-rise building ready
to get on an old elevator,
and he saw people
in the elevator.
For the first time in his life
he could not see any auras
around them.
Oh. And he -- scared --
it scared him so much...
Oh, I see it.
...he backed off.
Yeah, mm-hmm.
The elevator cable snapped.
Crashed. And they died.
Yep, yep. Go figure.
Wow. You know we have
one layer around us.
A lot of esoteric people call
it the "etheric layer," and it's
around our body, but it's also
around what we call our soul,
which is the part of us
that moves from experience
to experience, and some
say lifetime to lifetime.
And when we're going to leave,
that part of us takes
our colors you could say,
takes up our life energy,
our memories, and exits.
It's like it takes a
suitcase of this life with it.
So my sense is that's
what he was perceiving is
that at some level they knew
what was going to happen,
certainly not up
here, and not in a way
that they could probably
have prevented it, you know,
but that soul was
already exiting.
So -- so those colors were gone.
You know the -- the immortal
self was already gone.
In a moment Cyndi will
tell us about this pendulum
when we come right back
on  Beyond Belief .
[ Applause ]
And welcome back to  Beyond
Belief  with Cyndi Dale.
Cyndi, what is this
huge lump of something?
Isn't that a mega stone?
What is this thing?
It's huge.
It's heavy.
I -- I hope I can't be sued
by some kind of stone police
for telling you,
but I brought ...
How did you get this here?
I carried it in a backpack from
Avebury which is a sacred site
over in England really
close to Stonehenge.
So that's actually kind of on
the outskirts of a sacred site.
I'm not going to admit
to actually pilfering
from a sacred site.
They let you check
this on a plane?
Yeah, isn't that amazing?
I mean, my gosh, it's
-- it's really heavy.
It's really heavy.
What is it?
Well, you know it's
actually fieldstone,
but it's from the area
of the sacred sites,
so it's really been whatever
word you want to use, infused
or imbibed with sacred
energy of thousands
and thousands of years.
Let me turn it around
so people can see it.
Isn't it beautiful?
Yeah. Yeah, it's pretty
amazing, to be honest.
What -- what does it do?
Well, it's part of a site
that was actually used
for healing ritual.
So Avebury had a number of
great big standing stones;
it's near Stonehenge, so
kind of think Stonehenge,
but even bigger, using
some of the local rock,
and they did ritual,
healing work, etcetera,
within that stone site.
And it -- thousands
of years, you know,
because the ancients really
believed in subtle energy.
Sure did. And healing was
done with subtle energy.
Right. They probably
knew more about it
than we do today, you know?
They know much more.
Yeah, you know I mean it'd
be really nice to kind
of speed dial back
there I think.
So does this give off anything?
It does give off energy.
I actually use it in my
office right next to people
who come in for healing work.
And I can't tell you
how many people go,
"There's something
odd-feeling near my foot,"
because of course I don't
put it on the sofa near them.
And I say, "You know that's a --
that's a stone from
Avebury, from a sacred site."
Amazing. Well, can you
imagine if this were
from an eight-foot stone that
they might have chipped away?
I can barely lift this.
I have no idea how they
moved things back then.
Isn't it wild?
Well, and there's all kinds of
theories about that, and I --
I go back to subtle
energy, you know.
I mean, these days we
have the mag dev trains
which are magnetic.
Right. You know and they're
not even on the ground,
and they're super bullet.
Yep. So why couldn't we have
used magnetism the same way...
Very good.
...thousands of years ago.
You know what...
It's science.
...Edward Lee Skullman...
Mm-hmm. ...who developed
Coral Castle in Florida,
a structure of buildings that
he moved by himself, I mean,
blocks of stone bigger
than part of this...
Mm-hmm. ...studio,
said it was magnetism.
It's magnetism.
That -- that you don't have
to be metal to be magnetic.
Now this -- this is
a pendulum, right?
This is a pendulum.
Tell me what you do with this.
Well, a pendulum...
And we're going to have
a demonstration and such.
...is really just any object
on a chain or a string.
This isn't a magical pendulum
just because it's really pretty,
but it is an object
that can be used
to measure the electromagnetic
or energetic flow of a chakra,
or an energetic field.
Because you know this stuff
really is more scientific
than it is kind of out
there or woo-woo [phonetic].
Right. So these chakras are
energetic bodies; they're made
out of EMF, or electromagnetic
energy or spectrum.
Mm-hmm. So are the energy
fields that come off of us.
So are what's called the
meridians, the energy fields
that flow inside of our body,
and we just don't have all
the tools that we need now
to take these pictures
or to measure them.
So a pendulum is kind of a --
an easy way to be able to look
at the electromagnetic
flow of a chakra,
and that's what we're
going to do...
All right.
...is show people
they have chakras.
Suzanne has volunteered.
Suzanne, come on down.
Here she is.
Hi, Suzanne.
Hello. How are you?
I'm well, thank you.
So we're going to see
if you have chakras.
Okay. Do you think
you've got them?
I'm sure I do.
Everybody does.
You know but we're open-ended
beings, and so our chakras,
and they expand into our energy
fields, respond to what's going
on around us, to how we feel,
you know to how -- what --
what we ate, you know to what
suggestions are being put
into our minds, so we're going
to do a little experimenting.
Okay. Not just to show
that you have chakras,
but to show how those respond
to different kind
of ideas, as well.
Now we went over some of
the main chakras that are
in the body and just around,
but we also have a lot
of secondary ones,
and some of those are
in our palm and our hands.
So I'd love it if you would
just reach your palm out.
There you go, and we
can put it right there.
And I'm just going to get a
measure of what's happening
with that electromagnetic
frequency right now, all right?
Now when a chakra's healthy
typically -- here we go --
it moves from the point of view
of me in a clockwise position,
and yours is doing it.
Now you're getting a little
nervous because it's starting
to shut down, isn't it?
Like, "Am I doing it right?
Am I doing it right?
I promise I'm not
cheating [laugher].
I'm not moving this thing."
So they can close down, and when
they're closed we don't pick
up as much information;
we don't send out as much.
That's not bad; it
just means we're not
as open at that moment.
We're not as much in the flow.
So me just explaining
that you're opening
up your chakra again.
Yeah. Isn't that nice?
But you're the one
doing the testing.
I'm holding it.
Right? But you know what?
People can try this at home.
You know all those
commercials where they say...
One of the few things...
...don't try this at home.
...you can do at home.
You can do this at home.
And if there's some kind of bond
between two people, you know,
just if they just
trust each other,
this'll happen at home, too.
Now you can see that
it's moving all over,
and I'm not doing that.
All right, so we're going
to do another experiment.
I want you to think a
happy, happy thought.
Like think about your
-- do you have kids?
I do. I have two daughters.
Okay, wow, you love your
daughters, don't you?
Mm-hmm. Look at that.
Look at it go.
Isn't that happy?
You have to...
It's like a...
...show them how
much you love them.
It's like a merry-go-round.
Okay. There you are.
Well, there's proof right there.
Yep. All right, now think about
somebody you don't like as much.
Don't share who it is.
Okay. You don't want to
be on-air and share that.
No, I don't.
All right, immediately.
Ooh, wonder who that
is [laughter]?
Yeah, do we really have
to wonder [laughter]?
See, and I'm actually even
feeling really hot while we talk
about this.
Yeah. So a lot of times we
get our own physical reactions
with somebody.
Mm-hmm. If we're able
to attune to them.
All right, I'm going
to do one more kind
of not nice thing to you.
Okay. All right, I want
you to think of a really --
kind of really hateful
situation,
something where you
really felt hurt.
That somebody betrayed her
or something like that?
Yeah, yeah.
It would be more emotional.
Mmm. You know, all right.
You can see that it
keeps you shut down.
Yep. All right, now
we're going to experiment
with a little healing.
Okay. All right?
So whatever it is
you call spirit,
even your own higher spirit,
we're just going to ask
for that situation, the emotions
of it, to be cleared for you.
Okay. See, and this is what
you were doing, George.
Yep. And now look
what's happening.
Yeah. It's actually
going counterclockwise
which is what happens
when we're clearing
or releasing from a chakra.
You're kind of downwind of this.
Mm-hmm. But it's all good energy
because we're bringing
in good energy.
Yeah. How -- how are you
actually feeling right now?
About that particular situation?
Mm-hmm. That it's -- yeah.
It's starting to resolve.
I can consciously
let it go, yeah.
All right, all right.
So let's just play a little
bit with time and space.
Okay. And say that it's
completely gone now.
Not only have you healed it,
but you've taken the proverbial
silver lining from it,
because ultimately that's
what forgiveness is.
Right. It's just saying, "You
know, maybe I didn't cause this,
maybe I can't cure it, but
I can take what's good..."
Right. "...and what -- what
provides wisdom and glean that."
And now look at how
you're shifting.
Yeah. I want you
to keep in mind,
you are not moving
that on purpose.
I'm not moving anything.
This is...
I'm not even actually
focused on it.
Yeah. I'm more focused
on Suzanne...
Yeah. ...than -- than the stone.
Yeah. Yeah.
So how do you feel right now?
You can rest your
arm for a second.
I mean, I can feel that.
I can even feel it kind of
go up my arm a little bit.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Like I feel that
shift happen, so.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Yeah. Because psychic
and physical are
really one and the same.
It's really just a
continuum of speed.
Yeah. You know, when we heal
something in the subtle realm
or even through suggestion,
you know, that gets locked
into the physical body, as well.
So it's very common when people
go through energy experiences,
you know, to get hot, or cold,
or different kinds of reactions,
or even emotions, you know.
And -- and the pendulum's
not doing the work.
No. It's just a tool.
It's just showing
what is happening
in your chakra that's then
being shared throughout the rest
of your system or body.
And we have many chakras.
We're just using a
minor one right there.
So are you okay if
I test another one?
Sure. All right, but
for this I'd like you
to put your hands
more at your side.
All right, we're going to
measure your stomach chakra.
All right.
Why? Well first of all
because it's easy for me to do
when she's sitting
down [laughter].
Okay. And second I'm going to
compare the solar plexus chakra
with her heart because sometimes
we have different experiences
in our chakras, so some are more
healthy sometimes than others...
Mm-hmm. ...or more
turned on than others are.
So I'm just going to
see what's happening
with that solar plexus
chakra right now.
All right.
All right, see this one's
going just kind of vertical,
and vertical tends to mean
that that energy center
which is dealing with
information, with data,
with administrative
procedures, with ideas,
with that which affects
our self-esteem,
vertical actually means
that you're processing
that spiritually right
now, which would make sense
because we're talking
about spiritual --
spiritual information.
Right. And a spiritual
way to look at yourself.
Mmm. To really look at
yourself as an energy being,
that's what this is reflecting.
All right, right.
Now if you think a little bit
more about everyday activities,
because this energy
center is a lot
about everyday life
activities, details, lists,
think about your lists.
Oh. Think [laughter].
Isn't that great?
It's working.
The lists at home,
I have them, too.
It's -- it's slowing
down, whatever that is.
It slows down.
You don't like those lists.
No. She ain't wanting
to do those lists.
Mmm, yes. Isn't that funny?
Okay, can I try something?
This might be fun.
Yes. You have a maid.
Oh. I'm trying hypnosis.
You have a maid.
Please, God.
Yeah. You have a maid.
Yes. All right, somebody
else's right now --
those elves, you know, the
elves and the shoemaker?
You've got list elves.
And she opens right back up.
You're not quite
buying it [laughter].
You're not quite buying it.
Yeah. Now I ruined
your time [laughter]
because you're thinking
about your lists.
Let's hear it for
Suzanne, huh [applause]?
Suzanne, thank you.
Thank you, Suzanne.
I have used the pendulum as a
lie detector test for people.
Ooh, show me how you do that.
Well, up and down is yes.
Mm-hmm. That way is no.
Mm-hmm. And I will write
it on a piece of paper.
I'll put yes, yes, no, no.
Mm-hmm, yeah.
Right? Yep.
Just like this.
Yep. This would be yes, yes.
Yep. This would be no, no.
And then you hold
the pendulum...
Mm-hmm. ...over it,
and you tune people in,
and you ask them questions.
And sure enough you
get great answers.
I did this at a party once.
Oh, interesting.
And I had some -- one
of my friends came by.
Mm-hmm. And we did it for him,
and his wife was there, and...
Mm-hmm. ...everybody's --
you know couples were there.
And I asked him some
yes or no questions
and tuned him right up.
And then my last question was,
just to be silly [gasping],
have you ever had an affair?
Oh, no! And it went yes.
Oh! He dropped it and
ran out of the room.
Oh, my stars.
And they got divorced.
Oh, my stars!
[Inaudible conversations]
Unbelievable.
Well, maybe they
needed to get divorced.
Let's put it that way.
I ruined them.
[Laughter] No, he --
he did it [laughter].
They're very, very accurate.
They're very accurate because
you're measuring energy,
and energy doesn't lie.
No. People can lie...
It doesn't lie at all.
...but energy doesn't lie.
Where can people find
you on your Website?
Website, cyndidale.com.
It's spelled funny,
C-Y-N-D-I, cyndidale.com.
That's where I am.
And your books?
Still available?
They're out there?
They're all out there, yep.
And -- and where -- where
do you go in the future?
What's next for you?
More books, more
baseball, more fiction.
I really am going to do what
I said I was going to do
when I was a little kid.
I'm starting to work
on some teen fiction.
So working on that
and some classes.
You enjoy writing?
I like writing.
Yeah? Yeah, yeah.
It's... It -- it's fun.
It is fun.
I've -- I've written a couple
books, but it's a lot of work.
It's more work than
people think.
Yeah. It's really about
having a good editor, I think.
And you can't start
until it clicks.
[Snap fingers] No,
it has to just...
And once it clicks,
then you're okay.
That's it.
Then you're okay, exactly
my experience, too.
Well, good.
Let's hear it for Cyndi
Dale, huh [applause]?
Subtle energy.
Thanks, Cyndi.
Who would think that you
could use energy for healing,
for developing incredible
things about the mind?
But Cyndi does, and it works for
her, and it can work for you.
Thanks for watching
Beyond Belief .
[ Applause ]
[ Music ]